So in this segment I want
to talk about hiring,
the process of getting people into jobs.
If you think about hiring
in most organizations,
it's pretty clear that sometimes we do
it well and sometimes we do it badly.
If you Google online you'll
see a lot of statistics,
about maybe half of all new hires fail.
It's never been clear to me where
they get those statistics from, but
it's certainly the case that we
can see in most organizations.
We hire a bunch of people,
some of them work out, some of them don't.
A lot of people leave their jobs
fairly quickly which suggest
this was not a good match.
And so, it's done fairly
imperfectly pretty much everywhere.
When you think about what hiring is
there are a bunch of different
ways of thinking about it.
So often we think about it as a match.
It's almost like dating.
It's finding the right chemistry.
And that's usually influential
in how people actually hire.
From an analytic standpoint though,
the way that we think about hiring
is about predicting performance.
We have a lot of people who
are applying to the job.
What we want to know is who's
going to perform best in it?
And so
all of the effort goes into figuring out
what predicts high performance, so that
we can then screen on those attributes.
What I've got here is a list of
different things that companies use in
order to try and screen applicants, to try
and understand what their performance is.
So we see things like job knowledge tests,
cognitive ability tests.
use personality test, reference checks,
structured interviews, unstructured
interviews, work samples, integra test,
a wide variety of things that can
be used to try and get at this question,
who is going to perform well in the job?
Question that we have to ask
then is which of these are best?
So, if we're thinking about
assessing candidates.
Which of these should we be using and
which of them shouldn't we be using?
So as you look at that list.
What do you think are some of the thing
that are gonna be most effective at
predicting performance?
Had a chance to look at it?
Think about it a little.
Okay, well let's see what actually works.
So what I've got here
are a series of correlations.
So I don't know how much you
know about statistics, and
one thing that I'm going to say repeatedly
during this module, is that if you
haven't taken a course on statistics and
you're interested in this topic.
I really strongly recommend that you
take a couple of introductory courses in
statistics, because they're sort of
the complement to what we're doing.
You want to understand the people
side of analytics, and
how to apply analytics to people but
statistics just
gives you an understanding of some of
the ways of interpreting the results.
And for those of you who
haven't done this recently,
correlation is basically a measure of
how closely two variables move together.
So correlation of zero means these things
are totally unrelated to one another
of correlation of one means they
move together perfectly that
they could almost be the same thing.
And where they fall in that spectrum
tells you how closely they're correlated.
And so what you see in this graph
is a variety of correlations.
The largest correlations are the things
that are doing the best job of predicting
performance.
Correlation of .5 is quite strong,
it's, again, not 1.
It's not a 1 to 1 correspondence, but
it tells you this is quite good
at predicting performance.
When we get down to kind of,
.2, .3, that's a lot weaker.
And so, what we've done here
is we've listed in order
how the various different assessment
techniques actually predict performance.
So if you got it right, congratulations.
Give yourself a pat on the back as long
as you're not carrying anything heavy or
something like that.
If you got it wrong, I'm sorry,
but better luck next time.
Anyway, if you go through what you see,
is that there are a number of things
that really do predict
performance quite effectively.
So more than anything else,
perhaps not surprisingly is work samples.
And so some companies, when they hire,
they ask people to either produce, or
perform something like the work
that they're going to do.
So for example, technical writers.
Maybe you'll give them
a description of your product and
ask them to give us a sample
of writing about it.
I heard companies hiring analysts,
maybe we'll send them a spreadsheet
of data and ask them to analyze it.
Just getting a sense of, can they perform
the job they're being asked to do.
Another thing that is surprising,
I would say affective,
is congnative ability testing.
It turns out that actually, general
intelligence is really quite predictive
of performance in a very
wide range of jobs.
And so some organizations will actually
have candidates do something that looks
like an IQ test, if intelligence
is something they care about and
drives performance,
it's the easiest way to measure it okay?
Third thing that we've seen is very
effective is structured interviews.
What's the difference between
a structured interview and
an unstructured interview that
comes down at the bottom?
An unstructured interview is
really when we meet somebody, and
we talk to them, and we try and
get a sense of Who they are,
what they're like, what their
strengths and weaknesses might be.
We all think we're good
judges of character.
It turns out, we're not.
So, I don't know if you've read,
it's a marvelous book.
Thinking Fast, Thinking Slow,
by Daniel Kahneman.
You get a chance,
you should really look at it
Carniman is a Nobel prize winning
psychologist, which is quite a neat trick,
since there isn't actually
a Nobel prize in Psychology.
He won it for Economics.
He has done a lot of work on biases and
characteristics.
He tells this lovely story about
the first job that he ever had.
So he was working with
the Israeli defense forces, and
his job as a psychologist was to try and
assess candidates for officer training.
And so they had this exercise where
they would get these candidates
carrying this large log, and say, okay,
you've got get all of you candidates, and
this log, over a six foot wall,
and neither you nor
the log can touch the wall at any point,
and the log can't touch the ground.
And the idea was that psychologists would
stand around and watch them as they try.
And so you'd see some people would try and
organize people that
come up with the ideas.
So coordinate,
other people might hang back,
some people get very annoyed
when their ideas got ignored.
In other cases you'd see
when it was going wrong.
Some people would give up, but
others would really step forward and
start trying to organize people.
They figured, based on this,
you'd get a really good sense
of people's leadership ability.
And so, they would rate people, and
make recommendations about who
should go to officer's training.
The interesting thing
about the story is that
they actually knew how good
their assessment were.
They could see the end as people
went through officer training
who actually turned out
to be good at this.
And they discovered there was almost no
correlation between what they thought
based on kind of what seemed
like a good set of test, and
how people actually performed.
What was really scary to Kahneman was
that even though over time they learnt
that this test was in no was predictive
of performance, nonetheless for
each individual they still felt very
confident in making a prediction.
Okay we know in general this doesn't work,
but we know this guy is going to make it.
This guy definitely not going to make it.
And he calls this
the illusion of validity,
a sense that we think we know much
more about people than we actually do.
And the challenge with on structured
interviews when we sit down and
we talk to people, and try and
figure out what they're like
is really giving into
the illusion of validity,right,
we don't know learn very much, but
whatever biases, prejudices we have.
They fill up the whole room in our mind
in terms of actually judging them.
So unstructured interviews are found
to be really pretty bad at predicting
what people are going to do and
how they are going to perform.
Structured interviews, on the other hand,
are when actually interviews are designed
to assess specific characteristics
of the individual, and
get at whether or not they have
the attributes needed for the job.
They're found to be fairly predictive.
On the other end of the scale, I think
something that often surprises people is
how ineffective reference checks are.
We have a sense that if we ask
people who know the candidate,
they should really be able
to tell us how they perform.
There are a couple of problems with this.
I mean there are certainly legal issues in
the U.S. now, which is companies are very
afraid of giving negative references
because they might be sued.
On top of that, and certainly having read
a lot of reference letters over the years.
You realize that most of what
drives the quality of a reference
is actually the person
writing the reference, right.
How happy they are to lie outrageously on
somebody else's behalf to help them get
a job, and when you're trying to predict
performance, and most of the variations in
your measure is being driven by
the person writing the reference.
Rather than the person
the reference is about,
is going to be quite a poor measure
of their future performance.